---
layout: post
title: Goat Mountain, Goat Ridge Peak
categories: hiking, canada, BC
blog: andy-mckay
---

Bagged: ✅ Goat Mountain, ✅ Goat Ridge Peak

<hr class="florished">

Goat Mountain is relatively straightforward, but has very steep paths up it. Some of those steep parts have chains, others do not.

From there it's a hike around the ridge to Goat Ridge Peak. This is through heather, blueberry bushes and small trees, with many patches of snow causing streams and waterfalls. This is one of the most beautiful hikes I've done this year with absolutely amazing views. Would recommend.

But I wasn't alone. With clear and recent bear footprints in the snow and the mud. Not surprising given the number of blueberry bushes that will be perfect bear food soon.

<div class="strava-embed-placeholder" data-embed-type="activity" data-embed-id="11873068247" data-style="standard"></div><script src="https://strava-embeds.com/embed.js"></script>

What started out as a relatively easy hike, soon turned into something that I struggled with. My heart rate was climbing fast, I was tired and felt more wiped than I have in a long time. The feeling was similar to when I struggled on [Mt Frosty](/2023-08-18-mt-frosty.html).

The hike across the peak is very exposed and I was in the mid-day sun at that point for quite a while, working my way across snow. I was tired, dehydrated and had lost a lot of electrolytes which I hadn't replaced. 

Then I pulled a muscle climbing down some quite vertical sections. 

By the time I got back to the gondola I was thoroughly drained and tired. Currently I'm doubting if I can actually complete my goal, not only are some peaks really hard (and look very intimidating from up high), but I really questioned by fitness today. At this point I think I'm gonna have to make doing all the peaks a 2024 and 2025 goal.