
---
layout: post
title: Wilsons Promontory
categories: Hiking, Australia
---

[Wilsons Promontory](https://www.parks.vic.gov.au/places-to-see/parks/wilsons-promontory-national-park) is a park at the southern tip of the Australia. Well it's the southern most part of what people in Tasmania call "the mainland", because Tasmania is the southern most tip. 

It's a beautiful park, but when we visited was buffeted by strong, strong winds, whipped with rain and generally just pretty rough. It's like the wind and rain was coming straight from Antarctica. The result was that saw huge waves crashing up on the rocks and deserted beaches.

On the second to last day we were there, the sun came out in the morning and I got to do a decent hike, sadly not overnight but long enough to write about 😁

The original route of choice was the much longer hike over to Sealers Cove, but that trail was currently closed. 

[gpx#wilsons]

So instead my route was from Tidal River hugging the coast, through Little Oberon Bay. Then turning right inland to Telegraph Junction. At that I headed north to the slopes of Mount Oberon, then back into Tidal River.

The hike down along the coast was the absolute highlight. Featuring birds, kangaroos and about 5 humans in total. I was all alone in Little Oberon Bay, just enjoying a pristine and deserted beach. 

There was a creek to cross that wasn't hard, but I did head quite far out on the beach till it was really shallow. 

The walk inland was on wide sandy or gravel roads and wasn't that interesting. Eventually I got into "just get it done" mode. The trail was a bit busier as this the main north - south route from Tidal River down to the Lighthouse or Roaring Meg campsite.

After about 3 hours the rain set in and didn't let up again. Fortunately I got to the cafe in time to get a nice bowl of chips.

A good hike, but I would like to explore of the beaches and cliffs on the eastern and southern side of this area, I'm sure those are just amazing.
