---
layout: post
title: What to learn?
categories: Python
old: 1860
blog: andy-mckay
---
Almost got into an interesting argument the other day on irc, but managed to get back to work and avoid the distraction. Somebody made the comment that they weren&#39;t too keen on Python because they&#39;d learnt most of it in a day and there wasn&#39;t much more to learn. This is, of course, not true. But it is true that if you are familiar with other languages, you can become productive in Python in about a day.  You just have to hop over to the Ruby irc channel to see the opposite.<div><br /></div><div>&nbsp;I&#39;ve been learning Ruby and yes got productive and wrote a few teeny scripts in about a day. I&#39;ve been progressing from this 10 liners into the world of a reasonably complicated Ruby on Rails application. That&#39;s taking it to the next level in terms of complexity.</div><div><br /></div><div>When you hit that you hit the usual problems: its more than 10 lines, its probably not documented and tends to be disjointed to someone who new to it, there&#39;s syntax in there you don&#39;t understand.  So I got help from the Ruby channel. And started a few arguments about what things meant. One was:  <pre>dict[&quot;key&quot;] |= [&quot;list item a&quot;,]</pre> That&#39;s a bitwise or followed by an assignment. Usually except when the operators have been overloaded, which apparently they had. So no idea what that did. Fortunately I found out it wasn&#39;t involved in the problem and moved you. And then you notice people asking &quot;What does X mean?&quot;. Followed later by &quot;Thank you, just learnt something today.&quot;.</div><div><br /></div><div>But is learning wierd syntax really useful learning?  There&#39;s so much I need to learn, including, but not limited to: agile development, project management, xpath and xslt, javascript scoping and closures, threading details, Squid, carpentry, surfing... I&#39;m betting 90% of programmers out there can at least learn things in communication, economics, project management and training.  Learning wierdo syntax in a language is learning, but it&#39;s not productive learning. Incrementally learning things about $! does in that line of Perl, does not make you a better programmer. It&#39;s unlikely to get you better paid. Instead its a poor tool that obfuscates things and confuses your life.</div><div>A more appropriate refrain would be &quot;Thank you for wasting the time and making life complicated for me&quot;.  Things that we develop aren&#39;t simple every day, but don&#39;t confuse learning language and tool quirks with learning. Focus on the things that will help again and again, long after Python has gone because Perl 6 has come out running 10x faster under Parrot and we all switch to Perl.</div><div><br /></div><div>&nbsp;Life is short, code in Python. Life is short, learn the right things.</div>