---
layout: post
title: S5 and Remote buddy
categories: General
old: 1878
blog: andy-mckay
---
For a while now I&#39;ve been presenting using Safari and S5. I don&#39;;t actually use the Plone S5 product I wrote a while back anymore, all my presentation are written in .rst, checked into Subversion and run through docutils to generate a wonderful looking Safari S5 presentation. <div><span class="Apple-style-span" style="font-weight: bold"><br /></span></div><div><strong>Note</strong>: if anyone wants to update <a href="http://svn.plone.org/svn/collective/PloneS5" target="_blank">Plone S5</a> to the latest version of S5 that would be a good idea. </div><div><br /></div><div>Compared to the bad old way of using PowerPoint or Open Office this is a wonderful change. All the presentations are checked into SVN. They are in plain text and so diffable. If I want to change the look and feel I change the CSS. I have a few different skins, default and default-big. The latter is styled on Paul Everitts approach of large text with small 3-4 word sentences. PDF&#39;s are generated by clicking the print to PDF button in Safari and I&#39;ve covered every possible base. </div><div><br /></div><div>This really hit home the other day for Seattle when I wanted a simple thing, I wanted to syntax highlight all the code in my slides. Ugh 200 slides, thats a lot of syntax highlighting. So yet again the <a href="http://www.dreamprojections.com/SyntaxHighlighter/" target="_blank">JS syntax highlighter</a> came to the rescue. All I did was include a peice of Javascript to kick onload and run through the presentation syntax highlighting elements. Admittedly since its the same code for Clouseau, PloneSilverCity 2.0 and this blog, I knew where I was going. But in the end 200 slides were syntax highlighted in around 10 minutes. </div><div><br /></div><div>The one thing that was missing was the ability to have a clicker for my slides so I can wave my arms and walk around. I used to use a blue tooth wireless mouse, but I have a bad history with these things and gave up. I really wanted to use the remote for the Macbook, but couldn&#39;t figure out how to get at the Front Page API to script Safari.  In the end there&#39;s no need <a href="http://www.iospirit.com/remotebuddy/" target="_blank">Remote Buddy</a> is well your buddy and gets added to those must have apps (like TextMate, Quicksilver, Megazoom etc). It allows you to control a whole series of apps, including Safari, from the remote.</div><div><br /></div><div>So I can now fire up my presentation, wander around and click through the slides using the remote. Probably not as cool as a blue tooth phone, but hey its got the better than 50% success rate I&#39;;ve seen from presenters with phones and if I drop my remote down the toilet, its a $30 replacement.  If the app or controls aren&#39;t there you can build up a series of actions or Apple script from the Remote Buddy builder. That turned out to be a bit of a pain and I haven&#39;t figured out how to from the remote, jump to my bookmarks, scroll through my presentations and start showing a presentation. But I&#39;ll get there. </div><div><br /></div><div>Since we&#39;ve sold our DVD and CD players, the Macbook is now our major focal point of household entertainment and as such we use the remote a lot. Remote buddy allows us to access iTunes when Front Row doesn&#39;t quite come <a href="http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=302533" target="_blank">up to scratch</a>. All in all, nice app.</div>