---
layout: post
title: Marketplace Security CTF
categories: Mozilla
blog: andy-mckay
---

At the Mozilla Marketplace work week in Portland last week, we did a security
capture the flag. The idea was modeled on last years <a href="http://stripe-ctf.com/">Stripe CTF</a> which was done
online. In each round a web application was stood up with a security hole and
developers had to hack their win, getting the "flag". Often this is done
competitively, but being Mozilla we didn't do that.

My goal was to focus on things that could be found and hacked within about 10
mins. In the Stripe case, many were designed to be much longer. That meant a
few interesting challenges I wanted to get into, like MITM and replay attacks
weren't really possible. So those got binned.

As it turns out we ended up starting this at 4pm and had less time than
planned, so it was good the challenges weren't too
hard as everyones brains were already fried by a full day.

The code and presentation is <a href="https://github.com/mozilla/marketplace-ctf">on github</a>.

The first one was pretty easy and pretty much everyone got it, but things
started to drop off a bit after that. Some were cracked in a matter of seconds.
I did think it was awesome that our operations team got a bunch of them.

I'd like to do this again, but next time focusing on harder challenges and
doing them over a longer time period. Maybe one day or so would give more time
for complex problems.

Thanks to <a href="https://github.com/robhudson">Rob Hudson</a> for thinking of ideas and checking my answers.
